README.md, before:

# vc-incident-watch
Live Ventura County incident dashboard

## Admin (SMS subscribers)
- Admin page: `/admin.html`
- Page is protected with Basic Auth. Use username `admin` and password = `ADMIN_TOKEN`.
- API calls also accept Bearer or `?token=` with `ADMIN_TOKEN`.
- Store phone numbers in E.164 format (example: `+18055551234`).

### Required bindings / env vars
Create a KV namespace and bind it to Pages Functions as:
- `VCWATCH_KV` (stores subscribers + last fire snapshot)


Set these environment variables:
- `ADMIN_TOKEN`
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`
- `TWILIO_FROM` (a Twilio phone number in E.164 format)

## Fire notification endpoint
Endpoint: `/api/fire-notify`

Call it on a schedule (cron, uptime monitor, etc). The endpoint:
- pulls the VCFD incident feed
- detects new active calls since the last run
- sends SMS alerts to all subscribers

The first run only stores a snapshot to avoid spamming. Use either:
- `Authorization: Bearer <ADMIN_TOKEN>`
- or `?token=<ADMIN_TOKEN>`

## Test SMS endpoint
Endpoint: `/api/test-sms`

Send a one-off test message to specific numbers:
- `mode: "latest"` uses the newest active call data
- `mode: "custom"` uses a custom message body

Authentication is the same as above (ADMIN_TOKEN).

## Test recipients list
Endpoint: `/api/test-recipients`

The Test SMS tab stores a permanent recipient list in KV until you delete entries.

## iOS Web Push (PWA)
Requirements:
- iOS 16.4+ (push only works when installed)
- In Safari: Share → **Add to Home Screen**
- Open the app from the **Home Screen icon** (not Safari tab)
- Enable the toggle in **Fire/Medical** tab

### VAPID keys
Generate VAPID keys (one-time) using @mmmike/web-push:
```bash
node -e "import('@mmmike/web-push/vapid').then(m => m.generateVapidKeys().then(console.log))"
```

Set env vars:
- `VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY`
- `VAPID_PRIVATE_KEY`
- `VAPID_SUBJECT` (e.g. `mailto:you@vcwatch.org`)

Optional control:
- `PUSH_TEST_SECRET` (requires `x-push-secret` header for /api/push/test)
- `PUSH_NOTIFY_SECRET` (requires `x-push-secret` header for /api/push/notify)
- `ENABLE_PUSH_TEST=true` (allow /api/push/test without secret)

### Push endpoints
- `GET /api/push/config`
- `POST /api/push/subscribe`
- `POST /api/push/unsubscribe`
- `GET /api/push/status`
- `POST /api/push/test`
- `POST /api/push/notify`

Supported categories for notify/test filters:
- `FIRE`
- `TRAFFIC_COLLISION`
- `MEDICAL`
- `HAZMAT` (or `HAZARDOUS_MATERIALS`)

### Test flow
1. Install to Home Screen → open from icon
2. Toggle **Fire + Traffic Notifications** ON
3. Send a test push:
```bash
curl -X POST https://vcwatch.org/api/push/test \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "x-push-secret: YOUR_SECRET" \
  -d '{"title":"VC Watch Test","body":"Hello"}'
```

Commit message:

Add server-side VCFD cache and push polling
Co-authored-by: brallanp <brallanp@outlook.com>

README.md, after:

# vc-incident-watch
Live Ventura County incident dashboard

## Admin (SMS subscribers)
- Admin page: `/admin.html`
- Page is protected with Basic Auth. Use username `admin` and password = `ADMIN_TOKEN`.
- API calls also accept Bearer or `?token=` with `ADMIN_TOKEN`.
- Store phone numbers in E.164 format (example: `+18055551234`).

### Required bindings / env vars
Create a KV namespace and bind it to Pages Functions as:
- `VCWATCH_KV` (stores subscribers + push subscriptions)
- `INCIDENTS_KV` (stores cached VCFD incidents + sent dedupe keys)


Set these environment variables:
- `ADMIN_TOKEN`
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`
- `TWILIO_FROM` (a Twilio phone number in E.164 format)
- `REFRESH_SECRET` (for `/api/incidents/refresh`)

## Fire notification endpoint
Endpoint: `/api/fire-notify`

Call it on a schedule (cron, uptime monitor, etc). The endpoint:
- pulls the VCFD incident feed
- detects new active calls since the last run
- sends SMS alerts to all subscribers

The first run only stores a snapshot to avoid spamming. Use either:
- `Authorization: Bearer <ADMIN_TOKEN>`
- or `?token=<ADMIN_TOKEN>`

## VCFD cache endpoints
These endpoints are used by the UI and the cron job:
- `GET /api/incidents/latest` (reads from KV only)
- `POST /api/incidents/refresh` (calls VCFD, updates KV; requires `x-refresh-secret`)

## Test SMS endpoint
Endpoint: `/api/test-sms`

Send a one-off test message to specific numbers:
- `mode: "latest"` uses the newest active call data
- `mode: "custom"` uses a custom message body

Authentication is the same as above (ADMIN_TOKEN).

## Test recipients list
Endpoint: `/api/test-recipients`

The Test SMS tab stores a permanent recipient list in KV until you delete entries.

## iOS Web Push (PWA)
Requirements:
- iOS 16.4+ (push only works when installed)
- In Safari: Share → **Add to Home Screen**
- Open the app from the **Home Screen icon** (not Safari tab)
- Enable the toggle in **Fire/Medical** tab

### VAPID keys
Generate VAPID keys (one-time) using @mmmike/web-push:
```bash
node -e "import('@mmmike/web-push/vapid').then(m => m.generateVapidKeys().then(console.log))"
```

Set env vars:
- `VAPID_PUBLIC_KEY`
- `VAPID_PRIVATE_KEY`
- `VAPID_SUBJECT` (e.g. `mailto:you@vcwatch.org`)

Optional control:
- `PUSH_TEST_SECRET` (requires `x-push-secret` header for /api/push/test)
- `PUSH_NOTIFY_SECRET` (requires `x-push-secret` header for /api/push/notify)
- `ENABLE_PUSH_TEST=true` (allow /api/push/test without secret)

### Push endpoints
- `GET /api/push/config`
- `POST /api/push/subscribe`
- `POST /api/push/unsubscribe`
- `GET /api/push/status`
- `POST /api/push/test`
- `POST /api/push/notify`
- `POST /api/push/poll`

Supported categories for notify/test filters:
- `FIRE`
- `TRAFFIC_COLLISION`
- `MEDICAL`
- `HAZMAT` (or `HAZARDOUS_MATERIALS`)

## Cron (refresh + notify)
Pages does not run scheduled functions directly. Use a Worker cron:

1. Deploy the Worker in `cron-worker/` (example config included).
2. Set Worker env vars:
   - `REFRESH_URL=https://vcwatch.org/api/incidents/refresh`
   - `REFRESH_SECRET` (same as Pages)
3. Schedule: `*/3 * * * *`

The cron calls `/api/incidents/refresh`, which updates KV and immediately sends pushes for new incidents.

### Test flow
1. Install to Home Screen → open from icon
2. Toggle **Fire + Traffic Notifications** ON
3. Send a test push:
```bash
curl -X POST https://vcwatch.org/api/push/test \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "x-push-secret: YOUR_SECRET" \
  -d '{"title":"VC Watch Test","body":"Hello"}'
```
